**Pantoum - Server**
============

This is the official installation steps for the server side of `pantoum`. There are 8 parent folders in the repo that are designated to particular function and parent files which provide the similar coverage as followed: 

- [app]: consists gulp task and configuration needed in development environment. These tasks simplify build setups and push continuous work flow to the maximum level
- [bootstrap]: contains a few files that bootstrap the framework and configure autoloading, as well as a `cache` folder that contains a few framework generated files for bootstrap performance optimization
- [config]: contains all of your application's configuration files
- [database]: contains your database migration and seeds. If you wish, you may also use this folder to hold an SQLite database
- [public]: contains the front end development
- [resources]: contains your views and localization files
- [storage]: contains compiled Blade templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework. This folder is segregated into`app`, `framework`, and `logs` directories. The `app` directory may be used to store any files utilized by your application. The `framework` directory is used to store framework generated files and caches. Finally, the `logs` directory contains your application's log files
- [tests]: contains your automated tests. An example `PHPUnit` is provided out of the box
- `.gitattributes`: is a simple text file that gives attributes to pathnames
- `.gitignore`: lists out which insignificant folders to not be included in the repo
- `artisan`: is the name of the command-line interface file included with Laravel. It provides a number of helpful commands for your use while developing your application
- `composer.json`: describes the dependencies of your PHP project and may contain other metadata as well
- `composer.lock`: locks the project to the list of the exact versions
- `gulpfile.js`: serves as the entrance level to what would be covered for the [dev] folder
- `package.json`: is the npm BFF file. Includes all packages needed for node_modules and custom npm commands
- `phpunit.xml`: PHPUnit's XML configuration file which can be used to compose a test suite
- `readme.md`: is all that are contained in this very own file
- `server.php`: It is meant to be used with PHP's internal web server. This web server is designed for developmental purposes only, and should not be used in production

Before launching your Homestead environment, you must install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads), [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/) and [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html). Both of these software packages provide easy-to-use visual installers for all popular operating systems

### Adding The Vagrant Box
```
vagrant box add laravel/homestead
```

### Installing Homestead
```
composer global require "laravel/homestead=~2.0"
```

Make sure to place the `~/.composer/vendor/bin` directory in your `PATH` so the `homestead` executable is found when you run the `homestead` command in your terminal

Once you have installed the Homestead CLI tool, run the `init` command to create the `Homestead.yaml` configuration file:
```
homestead init
```

### Set Your SSH Key in the `Homestead.yaml` file 
```
ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "you@homestead"
```

### Configure Your Shared Folders
The `folders` property of the `Homestead.yaml` file lists all of the folders you wish to share with your Homestead environment. As files within these folders are changed, they will be kept in sync between your local machine and the Homestead environment. You may configure as many shared folders as necessary!

### Configure Your Nginx Sites
Not familiar with Nginx? No problem. The `sites` property allows you to easily map a "domain" to a folder on your Homestead environment. A sample site configuration is included in the `Homestead.yaml` file

### Bash Aliases
To add Bash aliases to your Homestead box, simply add to the `aliases` file in the root of the `~/.homestead` directory

### Add domains to your sites
Don't forget to add the "domains" for your Nginx sites to the `hosts` file on your machine! The `hosts` file will redirect your requests for the local domains into your Homestead environment. On Mac and Linux, this file is located at `/etc/hosts`. On Windows, it is located at `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`. The lines you add to this file will look like the following:
```
192.168.10.10  pantoum.dev
```

### Spin up a virtual machine 
```
homestead up
```

### Load the app using the following domain
```
pantoum.dev
```

### Stop a virtual machine before power-off
```
homestead suspend
```

### Destroy a virtual machine
```
homestead destroy
```
